---
layout: post
title:  "Speech by Minister Josephine Teo on Population at Committee of Supply 2018"
date:   2018-03-01
permalink: "/media-centre/press-releases/permanent-secretary-retirements-and-appointment-1-june-2018"
---

1 March 2018 - Speech by Minister Josephine Teo at Committee of Supply Debate

“Together, We Can Be Well-Prepared For Our Future”

Preamble

Mr Chairman, I thank Members for their questions and suggestions.

At last year’s Committee of Supply debate, I focused on how we can support Singaporeans to marry and raise a family.  Today, I would like to take a longer term view and share more broadly about how our population strategies prepare us for the future.

We want to work towards a Singapore population that can (i) support a vibrant economy, so Singaporeans can earn a good living; (ii) enable a cohesive society, where people from different backgrounds can live in harmony; and (iii) sustain a stable citizen population over the long term, where citizens have a strong sense of national identity.

It is a delicate balancing act to meet all three objectives.  This is more than just the numbers. It is also about sensitivity toward how connected people feel with our evolving society.

At the same time, we face two long term challenges as we shape our strategies. First, a rapidly ageing population. Second, our low total fertility rate which many MPs have spoken about.

Mr Gan Thiam Poh and Mr Henry Kwek asked about the Government’s strategies to secure a bright future for Singaporeans, in view of our demographic challenges.

In this debate, I will provide an update on our population strategies and outlook, how we are planning ahead, as well as further measures to support marriage and parenthood. 

Our Population Strategies

Mr Chairman, we have three broad strategies to shape a healthy population profile. First, to enable all Singaporeans to age with purpose and grace; second, to make Singapore a Great Place for Families where marriage and parenthood are achievable, enjoyable and celebrated; and third, to maintain a careful balance in our foreign worker as well as immigrant flows.

Enable All Singaporeans to Age with Purpose and Grace

Let me start with the first strategy, which relates to a motion debated in Parliament last month. Members will recall that the debate reaffirmed that “seniors are a gift to society”, and we need a “whole-of-Singapore effort” to build a “Nation for All Ages”. Our ambition is to enable all Singaporeans to age confidently with purpose, grace and dignity.

We are making good progress. Today, Singaporeans are living an average of 74 years in good health, compared to 67 years, three decades ago [1]. Many who wish to continue working past the legal retirement age of 62 have been able to do so with our re-employment policies. More than 4 in 10 residents aged 65 to 69 are employed. This is the 5th highest employment rate when compared against the 35 OECD countries [2].

About 6 in 10 of active CPF members are now able to set aside the Basic Retirement Sum in their Retirement Accounts when they turn 55.  By 2020, this proportion is expected to increase to 7 in 10. But as SMS Amy Khor shared last month, we must continue to deepen our efforts at three levels.

At the individual level, to enable seniors to continue pursuing their passion or causes, to work for as long as they choose to; at the family level, to empower care-givers to give better support to our seniors to age-in-place; and at the community level, to build stronger communities of care, to complement family support for seniors.

We also want our seniors to stay healthy as they live longer. With good health, more seniors who wish to work can do so. That is why we raised the re-employment age from 65 to 67 last year. We also provide employers wage offsets through the Special Employment Credit to encourage them to employ seniors.

Last year, under the Adapt and Grow initiative, we enhanced support for mature PMET jobseekers, to make it more compelling for employers to hire them.

We also recognise that with extended longevity, families worry about their ability to manage should serious disability strike. This is why, having introduced MediShield Life, the Ministry of Health is reviewing ElderShield to strengthen support for seniors requiring long-term care.

We will continue supporting Singaporeans to lead active lives well into their silver years, contributing to the economy and society, while enjoying strong bonds with their families and communities.

Singapore: A Great Place for Families

At the same time, we should find meaningful ways to support families who are bringing up the next generation. 

This is why our second broad strategy to shape a healthy population profile is to make Singapore a Great Place for Families. This means strongly supporting Singaporeans’ aspirations to marry and have children so that both are achievable, enjoyable and celebrated.

Singaporeans continue to value families, and the pace of family formation remains strong.   Over the last four years, the number of citizen marriages and births has been above the past decade’s average.

But as Mr Melvin Yong and Mr Gan Thiam Poh highlighted, our TFR has remained low. It has hovered at around 1.2 in recent years. Last year, our TFR fell to 1.16. Why this apparent contradiction, when the number of births have been higher in the past few years?

With your permission, Chairman, may I display a slide on the LED screens?

